12/2/21
Hierarchical Clustering
recap from last week:
2 types of hierachical Clustering. join  two clostes cluster accoridng the proximity matrix.
keep doing until only 1 cluster remains
how to define inter-cluser similairty?
4 different distances, 
min, max, Group average, Distanec btw Centroids. other methods drice y an objective functipn.
Dis bt Centroid is not geometrice, but based on the distributions
MAXX(Completed DIstance)
max distance of the cluster points
Computing the minimum of the max distance, of the cluster form. then from these merge these clusters
not max, but a min max
//
If it is about proximity, then its the max of min distance from each cluster
minmax/maxmin always merge afterwars and recalculate it
//
join two closest cluster, not much differnce. Compute distance of the cluster as the maximim distance.
distance of this new cluster is the minimum possible distancce.

Strength of MAX:
less susceptible to noise and outliers than MIN
limitations:
tends to break clusters
biased towards global clusters
Group Average:
proximity of two clusters is the aveate of pairwaise proximity bte points in two clusters.
kinda like SSE
all of these are the same distances. 2 ideas bte dis bte sets.
one is Min,
proximity of group average of the points distance from each pnt in the cluster
\\
recalculate distance of the points
average Strength adn lmitation
Compromise bt single and complete link
Strengths:
Less suseptible to noise and noise than min
doesn't break large as much as MAX
limitations:
still biased towards globular clusters
//
R Programing
hierarchia clusering. R
hclust() is  for agglomerativeclutering.
rect.hclust() used the memory of the plot.
cutree(cl_sin_s,3) extract 3 level classification
3 methods single, complete, ave
single is MIN
complete is the MAX
ave is for group average
ward.D2 is what?
//
Density Clusters(maybe next week)
DBSCAN algorithm
as density based algorithm
Density = Number of pnts wthn a specified R (eps)
core pnt pnt with the eps
border pnt has fewer than Minpnt with eps is in the neighborhood of a core point
noise point any point not in the core point or noise point
fixed 2 points.
a center point and a threshold size
Cluster are not define yet. Just defining how many points.
Google about DBSCAN based algorithm.
if distance around it is not 10, then not a core point but a border point.
//
Minpnts size we define size of a core point.
Algorithm is to remove any noise point and merge points until a cluster
benefits
resitant to noise
can handle cluster of different shapes and iszes
draw back
Varying densities
high dimensional data
